# Hello World

Welcome to my reflection website! My name is Howell Nguyen, but I may be preferred to Howie. I am a student at Cal State Fullerton (https://www.fullerton.edu), graduating around 2027 or 2029 and majoring in computer engineering.

## CPSC Computer Projects

My GitHub website is http://www.github.com/HowieNguyen-bot

### My 3 Favorite CPSC 120 Labs

* Lab 1

Lab 1 is the most basic coding assignment of this class mostly because, at that time, students will be coding for the first time. In this code, students will use Linux's terminal to set up git configurations and learn the basics of using Linux commands. The Linux command I used for this lab is "mkdir" which students use to create a file called "CPSC-120", "cd" which is to change from one folder to another, and "ls" to show the list of objects that are in the file. In addition to setting up the git configuration, I was also able to learn about git commands like "git clone" which downloads a repository for local use, "git commit" which saves all current changes to the code, and "git push" which uploads the code from the latest commit to the website. This code is called hello. cc, it shows a basic code where the code would print out "Hello World". I have to do is to just change the "Hello World" to "Hello Howie and my partner's name". After changing it, I also learned about compiling the code with clang++ and using the code with ./a.out. I liked this lab assignment because the code, first of all, was easy and all I had to do was change the word the code would print. Secondly, it was fun to use this code since we were required to change the message to say my and my partner's name. We can also change the entire message so the code will print out a completely different message. 

* Lab 7, Part 2

In the second part of lab 7, this coding assignment will simulate parking rules if the parking time is valid or not. I have been given five streets, each having different parking rules. These streets are named Ash Street, Beech Street, Cedar Street, Date Street, and Elm Street. In the code, these will be entered as input strings ('ash'). The day, which is labeled as three starting letters of the word, and hours, minutes, and seconds, which are labeled 0-24 (23 means 11 pm) if hours or 0-59 if minutes or seconds are also considered input strings for this code. This coding assignment let me learn about the use of arithmetic signs in the code, mostly the greater than (>) and less than (<) signs, the code also taught me about the use of and (&&) and or (two vertical bars) in an if statement. Let's use these for an example, let's figure out a code for the parking times on Beech Street. The sign on Beech Street, tells us that parking is closed every Friday for street cleaning from 8 am to 12 pm. So if we want to make a code about the parking rules in Beech Street, we need to make an if statement where if it is Friday from 8 am to 12 pm, parking will be closed. In the if statement, I assigned a string variable day to equal to input string 'Friday'. I then used the ampersand and assigned the integer variable to be greater than or equal to 8. Note that if two or more conditions are listed in ampersands, all conditions have to be met to make it true or false. After that, I also put in ampersands before assigning another hour to be less than or equal to 12. So to conclude, the if statement should be like this: if(day == 'fri' && hour >= 8 && hour =< 12). Since we are determining that this resembles a closing time for the parking, it will be considered an invalid time to park there, or in the code, returns false. I like this assignment because it is great practice for me for the if statement since that time I was struggling with these if statements. Making this code was also a really fun challenge since there are different conditions in the if statements that I have to work with. Unfortunately, the grading for this must be improved because I got everything done on the lab but I got a low point. That was because of the unit test for parking.cc failed even though I don't have to edit what's below it.

* Lab 2, Part 2

In the second part of lab 2, we will be making a MadLibs about computers. A MadLibs is a game where the user can choose their word from each type of word like verbs, singular or plural nouns, adverbs, adjectives, and many more, and combine these words into a funny story. But for this lab, I will be using a singular noun, a plural noun, and a present tense verb. To use them, I have to learn how to use a data type called strings. Strings, or std::string, is a data type that usually stores non-number types like letters or a single word. So that means I can declare the singular noun with the std::string. One of the special differences that string have compared to other data type is that we don't have to set it as any variable like {0} because again, the string does not store a number. So we would declare a string like std::string word, and that’s it. I also learn about the use of std::cout and std::cin. Std::cout means character output and this is where the computer prints out the word to the screen. In the code, to enter a code that you want it to print into the screen, you have to set it between the insertion operators (<<), for example, std::cout << "Hello World". Std::cin means character input, which is where the user would put their entries that resemble a name that was declared by a data type. To let the user put their entry in the screen, they would use an extraction operator (>>). For example, if I want to enter a singular noun word in the program, I can type out std::cin >> singular_noun, in the code. Usually, the std::cin is for entering the word you want in the Madlib, the std::cout would be for asking which word you want to use and the overall message. I liked this assignment because I was able to learn the basics of creating messages in the code and inserting words into a program. It was also fun for me to insert words into a message to create funny and completely nonsense stories with my partners. 



